since it premiered in 2013 the attack on
Titan anime has been called the greatest
anime ever produced the most overrated
anime ever produced and the most
dangerous anime ever produced but which
opinion is right maybe just maybe
they're all wrong I didn't watch Attack
on Titan at first because I was in my
anime as for kids phase and only really
got into it earlier this year when
countless people online were telling me
how gay the relationship between Levi
and arabin was after watching the show
I have no idea what they were talking
about I don't see gay going on anywhere
between these two Historia and Emir yes
obviously Emir loudly proclaimed that
she wanted to marry Historia Jean and
Marco absolutely in my mind they loved
each other but Marco didn't live long
enough to see anything come of it but
Levi and Ervin
I just don't see it but even though I
didn't see the gayness your ship is
valid regardless I still found myself
becoming utterly transfixed by this show
to the point where I ended up watching
all 87 episodes in about three days but
not everyone is so in love with the
series the show and manga on which its
base have been attacked for portraying
the eldians the race of people who live
inside the walls as an analog for Jewish
people and since eldians can turn into
man-eating monsters something Jewish
people have been accused of being able
to do in the past believe it or not the
analogous connection has made more than
a few people uneasy the fact that actual
white nationalists have tried to embrace
Attack on Titan as a story that
expresses their Theory the Jews are
purposefully oppressing and attempting
to eliminate European people through
Mass migration and brainwashing hasn't
helped the show's defense many of these
people are embracing it not for its
representation of a Jewish analogy as
fighting to survive against a much
larger Force but as a defense of white
nationalism the they seem to see the
opposite of what normal fans see they
see themselves as the oppressed eldians
while the oppressing Marlins are the
Jewish analog to them because they
failed every media literacy course they
ever took but they still gravitate
toward the story nonetheless which many
find problematic I say we shouldn't be
letting the alt-right take ownership of
well anything but that's me so yeah
Attack on Titan is handling incredibly
charged issues and bringing some
extremely radical people into its midst
some of whom appear to be rooting for
the mass genocide at the end of the
story rather than realizing that every
lead character -1 from the first three
seasons sees it as awful and wrong most
of the show's principles are articulated
in a clumsy Manner and it's clear why
some people have been alarmed by how
it's portrayed that doesn't excuse
people from not being fair to the show
simply because some members of the
alt-right enjoy it in some ways though
Attack on Titan may not be inherently
fascist but it speaks to a fascist urge
in Attack on Titan the nature of
oppressor and oppressed is fluid and
ambiguous the humanity stuck between
those who assume these identities don't
really recognize or comprehend them when
their skulls are crushed and the
survivors reflect on watching their
loved ones perish in agony all that is
left of our life stories are the deeply
personal horrors of humankind's
inhumanity toward other humans and the
horror that your precious life can be
drained from your body in an instant by
forces you do not even comprehend so
let's bite into this world let's rip
open the nape of its neck and see what's
inside this franchise that has become
one of the best-selling mangas in
history one of the most watched animes
ever and one of the most hotly debated
pieces of media of the New Millennium
but first how about you stomp that
subscribe button below and ring that
Bell so YouTube actually does what it's
supposed to and lets you know when I put
a new video out and if you like this
video check out my patreon Linked In the
description there's a bunch of really
cool perks that come with being a patron
so don't miss out alright now let's make
like hanji and figure out what's going
on inside this monster called Attack on
Titan
foreign
[Music]
[Applause]
the story of Attack on Titan is
it's a lot skip ahead to part two if you
don't want manga spoilers season one the
what the hell is going on season a boy
named Aaron Yeager resides in the town
of shaganchana which is situated on the
outermost of three circular walls that
Shield its residents from the gigantic
mindless man-eating Titans but one day
two new Titan species the Colossal Titan
and the Armored Titan breakthrough Aaron
manages to flee while his mother is
devoured by a Titan along with his best
friend Armin and his adopted sister
Mikasa he swears Vengeance on all Titans
and enlists in the military five years
later the Colossal Titan Attacks again
this time closer to the second wall
during this attack Aaron discovers the
secret power that allows him to
transform into the sentient attack Titan
and uses it to effectively protect the
city this draws the attention of the
survey corps a military group once used
to explore the titan-ridden world
outside the walls led by Commander Ervin
Smith he intends to use Aaron's Newfound
power to reclaim the broken wall ervin's
second in command a short King named
Levi takes it upon himself to whip Aaron
into shape before they go explore beyond
the walls soon Aaron and his comrades
come upon a sentient female Titan while
exploring the forest between the walls
and eventually identify her as their
fellow Soldier Annie leonhardt Aaron
battles Annie and defeats her with the
help of his other soldiers but Annie
encases herself in a crystal form and is
hidden away from the public during the
battle it is revealed that there are
other sentient Titans within the very
walls of the city sleeping Giants
waiting to be awoken season 2 the plot
armor Titan season soon after the
intelligent Beast Titan and other
mindless Titans mysteriously appear
within the walls without leaving any
signs of how they got there one of the
newest survey corps grads Amir reveals
that she can also change into an
intelligent Titan the jaw Titan and a
girl named Krista who Amir is in love
with reveals herself to be Historia
Reese a descendant of the ancient royal
family two other members of the team
Reiner Braun and bear told Hoover reveal
themselves to be the Armored Titan and
Colossal Titan respectively an attempt
to kidnap Aaron but fail during the
incident Aaron discovers a new power
within himself known as the coordinate
which enables him to control other
Titans this forces Rhino and Bertolt to
run and Amir goes with them offering
herself as a sacrifice to keep Historia
out of Harm's Way season 3 the [ __ ] gets
complicated season the survey corps is
being targeted by military police led by
Kenny Ackerman Levi's Uncle while Aaron
and his companions join Levi's Squad
they learned that Historia and her
father Rod Reese are the only living
members of the royal Dynasty and that
the current King is a pretender on the
throne they also learned that one can
acquire the abilities of another Titan
shifter by transforming into a Mindless
Titan and eating it Rodriguez kidnaps
Aaron and reveals that Aaron is in
possession of not only the attack Titan
but the founding Titan which Aaron's
father Grisha acquired after eating
Rod's daughter Frida Reese the day the
wall fell and then passed it along to
his son after a violent altercation in
which Historia decides to rebuff her
father's demands to become a Titan Rod
drinks Titan spinal fluid and becomes a
gigantic abnormal Titan but is killed by
Historia who is then crowned queen with
The Pretender King now off the throne
the survey corps leads a successful
operation to recapture shaganchana
fighting the Beast colossal armored and
cart Titans but suffering massive
casualties including Aaron's best friend
Armin who is nearly killed by the
Colossal Titan but Armin is turned into
a Titan himself and acquires ownership
of the Colossal Titan by eating Bertolt
while Ervin dies in a suicide run
against the Beast Titan and is then at
least partially Avenged by Levi being
the absolute biggest badass of bad asses
then Aaron and his comrades returned to
the ruins of his child own where they
learn the truth about their world that
they are aliens sworn opponents of the
imperialist Marlins and were imprisoned
within the walls after the original King
Fritz fled the conflict they are not as
they were informed the last people alive
but rather a small sect of eldians on an
isolated island called parody over the
course of the next year the survey corps
kill all the remaining pure Titans on
the island and for the first time in
their lifetimes make it to the Sea where
Aaron resolves to wipe out the enemies
across the water season 4 part 1 the
what happened to my favorite character
season across the sea Marley continues
to oppress their eldian population
treating them like dirt turning them
into mindless Titans and sending them to
fight Wars of expansion for them and
brainwashing most of them into thinking
that they're evil and can only be
Redeemed by becoming a Titan and
fighting for them three years after
killing off the last of the Titans on
parody the survey corps attacked
Marley's Capital Liberia led by Aaron
and his half-brother Zeke the Beast
Titan Aaron kills Willie Tiber an eldian
who had been controlling Marley from the
shadows and takes custody of the until
now unseen War Titan after eating its
former owner Willie's sister Lara Aaron
had infiltrated Marley and gained the
trust of several of its citizens before
this leaving his friends in the dark as
to where he was or what he was doing so
once the attack is over and Aaron is
back home he is imprisoned but escapes
with the help of a group of fanatical
soldiers who have dedicated themselves
to Aaron known as the jagerists Zeke who
is revealed to have Royal Blood and
therefore special Titan abilities is
imprisoned by Levi but manages to escape
but not before Levi does some serious
damage to him meanwhile Marley's air
fleet led by Reiner launches an attack
on parity season 4 part 2 the exposition
season Aaron and Zeke managed to come
together which takes them to the paths
an interconnected set of gateways
connecting all the subjects of Emir
through time and space where they
encounter the mind of Emir the original
Titan not the lesbian Emir a different
one whose tortured past has kept her in
prison for thousands of years within the
path bill ing the world's Titans head of
sand one by one Zeke tries to persuade
Amir to Grant his request of sterilizing
all the subjects of Emir her descendants
therefore ending the Titan threat
forever and ending the suffering of all
aliens however Aaron persuades Amir
instead to unleash the rumbling letting
loose those thousands of colossal-like
Titans held within the walls of parody
and guiding them on a genocidal march to
slaughter everyone outside the island to
stop Aaron's maniacal Mission the former
leadership of the survey corps joins
forces with the remaining marlian forces
including Reiner and a decrystallized
Annie season 4 part 3 the manga ending
and maybe anime ending season after an
apocalyptic battle atop Aaron's Elder
Torah of a final form Levi kills Zeke in
a mysterious monster that is the source
of all the Titan's Powers leaving Mika
said to kill Aaron causing the Titans
power to vanish and release every person
who had been transformed into a Titan
it's revealed that what happened was
part of Aaron's plan all along because
he could see the future and the past and
was basically omniscient there for a bit
as the rest of the world is rebuilding
Armin and his comrades begin peace talks
led by Queen Historia Mikasa berries
Aaron beneath a tree on a hill in
Chicago District but over time the world
does not see peace instead only new
forms of warfare as is the nature of
humankind their home District of Chicago
has turned to Rubble in one such
conflict and the series concludes with a
boy approaching the giant tree that has
grown around Aaron's grave which Bears a
striking resemblance to the tree in
which Emir connected with the progenitor
of the Titan's power Millennia ago all
right clear as mud makes a lot more
sense while you're watching or reading
it if you're interested in a breakdown
that focuses more on the emotional beats
of the story check out totally not
Mark's Colossal Titan review video it's
long but totally worth the watch okay
now let's talk about the drama
to a large extent people started feeling
uneasy about Attack on Titan once the
manga explained the Titan's Origins
finally answering the series spanning
question what is in Aaron's family's
House's basement Aaron's father Grisha
left behind a journal outlining that the
outside world
isn't uninhabited at all that there is a
wide world out beyond the walls the
people of parity are of a race called
eldians All of whom have the ability to
transform into Titans under certain
circumstances who are the descendants of
the first Titan Emir and in this outside
world eldians are corralled into ghettos
and forced to wear armbands to
distinguish them they spend their lives
being told how their Titan ancestors
ruled the world with an Iron Fist and
that they must atone for the sins of
their tyrannical ancestors regardless of
the fact that there isn't really any
proof that said eldian empire ever
actually existed its existence is only
spoken of by people who would have been
told about it via anti-eldian propaganda
regardless the people of Marley the
continent across the Shores from parity
constantly fear the reprisal of this
mythical eldian war machine where the
wicked eldians from parody will rise up
and use the power of the Titans to rule
or destroy the world once more so ldns
in Marley who live inside ghettos must
toil in labor to prove that they aren't
like the Devils from within the walls of
parody Aaron's father held different
philosophy that the founding Titan Emir
was actually a benevolent goddess she
used her Titan blood to carve roads
erect Grand buildings and defend her
people from the interloping forces and
that it was the people of Marley who
jealously seized the power of the Titans
castamere's descendants away and forged
a false history of propaganda to
suppress those eldians who did not flee
to parody Grisha Yeager believed that
the eldians were not Devils but the
chosen people of God which in
euro-american rhetoric chosen people of
God carries a very specific meaning and
in conjunction with the ghettos and
armbands there seems to be a direct
comparison this leads some viewers who
interpret this storyline as being too
similar to anti-semitic conspiracies
which typically assert the Jewish people
govern the world via some sort of
ancient illuminati-esque cabal for
instance there is a well-respected LDN
family in Marley The tibers Who owe
their honorary Marley and status to
their role in driving the LDN royalty
away from the cotton into 100 years ago
and though they may be eldian the Tiber
family has for Generations use their
wealth and influence to manipulate
global politics which may mirror
real-world conspiracies that say that
secret Jewish organizations already
secretly Run the World this facet of the
show has helped others such as dot
pixis's character to stand out the
Creator and writer Hajime asiyama has
said that the character of Pixis a
military General was based on the real
life World War II General akiyama
yoshifuru who isiyama said he respected
and is revered by many in Japan despite
having committed war crimes particularly
in Korea isayama's statement about this
which came from a 2010 blog post before
Attack on Titan was published led to
death threats against the author because
everything leads to death threats these
days which ends up delegitimizing your
argument because no matter what he
believes you threatened to kill him so
now he's the victim and before you turn
around and say how dare he commit war
crimes please examine how we white
westerners prop up the likes of Winston
Churchill who ignored the deaths of
three million East Indian and then
British subjects and other figures like
American president Teddy Roosevelt who
said I don't go so far as to think that
the only good Indians are the dead
indians but I believe nine out of every
10 are and I shouldn't like to inquire
too closely into the case of the tenth
we take for granted that their pillars
of our culture because they gave a
speech or something regardless that they
were privy to massacres in genocide in
our own culture there is such an air of
veneration around these figures the
criticism is almost a cultural Taboo
it's not uncommon for creators to have
problematic views ones which are rooted
in their own cultural upbringing even
leftists give a pass to FDR as being a
great president and ignore the fact that
he locked up hundreds of thousands of
Japanese Americans during World War II
but nobody calls him a fascist
well Republicans might but not for the
right reasons some have even gone so far
as to call Attack on Titan itself
fascist and anti-semitic because while
Attack on Titan does have a large fandom
of normal people it also has a notable
and Loud right-wing fan base the new
Republic even dubbed it the alt-right's
favorite manga anime fans have gotten
themselves into a tangle trying to
decipher where asayama dries the line
between the metaphors he engages in and
his own personal convictions but Attack
on Titan contradicts this ayama's
apparent nationalism would Armin not be
as put off by the alt-right adopting the
anime as he is by the actually very
fascist jagerists bearing in mind that
all the main characters in the show end
up fighting against Aaron's imperialist
march across the world in the end to me
this raises an important question
if the alt-right is under the impression
that a piece of media is for them
are we just gonna roll over and let them
have it with content like
say Fight Club should we just relinquish
this media because the right famously
has such poor media literacy that they
do not realize it's actually making a
mockery of them the novel on which the
film is based was written by Chuck
palahnuk a gay author whose career is
marked by satire and subversion he
sought to criticize toxic masculinity by
first pointing out how inherently gay
masculinity and Firming rituals actually
are and secondly by highlighting that
the boys will go to any lengths to prove
their masculinity the message of Fight
Club is not that boys should not talk
about Fight Club it's that maybe boys
should talk about their feelings or else
they might be persuaded to commit
domestic terrorism instead of fighting
for this media's direct subtextual
meaning and holding on to it in spite of
the right wing following we just roll
over and let them add another piece of
media to their Library the problem being
the larger this collection of lib owning
content grows the more credible they
feel alternately and This concerns me
I've begun to wonder if the left also
lacks the media literacy needed to
properly gauge that fight Club is
specifically subverting the values and
sensibilities that the protagonists
represent an unfortunate Trend I've
noticed specifically in American Film
criticism is that analysts don't seem to
understand that they're not always meant
to identify with the values of the main
character just because they're the main
character sometimes the protagonist is
the villain as is the case with the
nameless protagonist of Fight Club but
is this the case with Aaron Jaeger
especially as the series reaches its
apocalyptic conclusion as Attack on
Titan comes to a close the question
becomes how to interact with it and also
whether or not a show can handle fascist
ideas in the manner with which it does
without being fascist and anti-semitic
itself isayama declined to comment on
the topic saying being a writer I
believe it is impolite to instruct your
readers the way of how to read your
story a large portion of the anime
Community as a generic group hold Attack
on Titan with very high regard you've
probably seen some of the show's
recognizable symbols especially its
military insignia even if you haven't
seen the anime or read the Manga it's
based on if anything you've probably
heard portions of the iconic first
season theme song which is a banger
[Music]
to introduce many people to anime and
manga which is what makes criticism so
tricky it's hard to criticize one's
First Love however being unable or
unwilling to address the problems in
Attack on Titan's fictional world has
caused a long simmering unresolved
conflict within the anime fandom
and Titan seems like it could be easily
written off as plainly pro-fascist the
central character is a pro-military
fanatic who uses his Pariah status to
justify mass extinction the militarism
of the story is reflected in the opening
sequence of the anime's first season
with the lyric I am a soldier granted
when it comes to All Things fashion and
Attack on Titan viewers always have to
read into it characters never
specifically come out and talk about
fascism either methods or ideology in
specific terms this may include
discussion about oppression
indoctrination propaganda and
dehumanization of a national enemy and
while all of these elements may be
deployed in a fascist regime they are
not exclusive to Fascism in fact not all
fascism is the same the term is often
deployed against things that
specifically draw from the posturing and
methodology of the Third Reich though
while it is true to say that all Nazis
were fascist
not all fascists were Nazis that said
when it comes to the specific elements
of Attack on Titan that are implicitly
drawn from the Third Reich these
elements are mostly visual the LDN
ghettos and Marley are never called
ghettos for instance we pick up on that
from the way they directly resemble
ghettos from the 30s and 40s when it
comes to what is written the depiction
of fascism is much more generalized
routinely dialogue leans toward valuing
People based on how they can serve the
military this is present in both the
forces of parody and Marley what good
you are to society is dependent upon how
you can advance the agenda of the state
however the bulk of the show's latent
fascist moralization is focused on Erin
Yeager and especially his Cult of
Personality the jagerists this is a
group that grew out of a branch of the
military specifically the branch that
had been depicted heroically from the
first three seasons the survey corps the
scouts themselves were depicted as
Plucky desperate dreamers they reached
for the impossible and they kept getting
up no matter how bad they got beaten
down time and time again this is a
common an underdog Trope in itself and
is not out of place among contemporary
pop culture however as Aaron became a
more pivotal figure to the survey corps
victories even though Aaron himself was
often ancillary many within the survey
corps and parody as a whole come to
venerate him and his agenda just as
season 4 doubles down on fascistic
undertones it perhaps begins to explore
the finer points of fishistic ideology
within fascism there is typically a
belief that death is the most
significant contribution that one can
make to society which has brought up
multiple times throughout seasons one
two and three in many fascist states
there is a warrior mythology around
seeking out a worthy death a worthy
death is almost always a death which is
of assistance to the reigning leadership
this is a component of why white
nationalists often lean into Norse
mythology as it goes entry into Valhalla
is earned through A Warrior's death
dying in battle the most common way to
die in battle was to be in an army
this isn't to say that all Nordic
culture itself was fascist the concept
of a good death was a religious one that
spanned across the whole culture rather
than in service to a single ruler that
isn't to say that rulers would not
exploit this but the purpose of a good
death was intrinsic rather than
appealing to a concept of the greater
good rhetoric around the greater good
itself is a pivotal element of Attack on
Titan and especially in season 4 we see
otherwise identifiable characters
committing atrocities in the name of the
greater good such as the once relatively
innocent Arman Aaron himself befits a
mythological Warrior status a figure who
is seemingly Supernatural powers and
whose objectives are unwaveringly
aligned with the defense or expansion of
the Homeland the warrior must possess
the characteristics that the state wants
the collective to embody however the
discourse on deathworthiness is not
limited to one side of this fictional
conflict and an interpretation of Aaron
depends on whether the series is
depicting him sympathetically
or critically some may interpret Aaron
as a heroic figure who is making the
tough but necessary decision to do what
needs to be done some interpret him as a
national figure who is returning A
persecuted Nation to its former glory to
others he is super Hitler these
viewpoints are represented by different
characters in the story and they can be
found on very different sides of the
conflict but there's very little framing
to moralize this specifically it seems
to be taken for granted that Aaron's
actions are evil
or necessary while Aaron himself is
fascist coded and while his cult the
jagerists are brazenly Fascist
does that mean the show itself is
fascist Aaron was after all the POV
character who is more or less the
audience's cipher for the beginning of
the series
but it's important to remember that the
protagonist of a story is not
necessarily the hero literally speaking
a protagonist is simply the character
For Whom The Narrative follows given
that Aaron is committing a literal
genocide I think it's safe to reason
that he is the series's principal
villain this narrative device isn't
uncommon a hero who uses their power to
become a monster is a plot device from
Frank Herbert's Dune it's present in the
Star Wars prequels and can even be seen
in ancient myths like Heracles when
gauging weather Attack on Titan itself
is fascist it comes down to how these
characters are framed and the consensus
in Attack on Titan from literally every
other main character is that Aaron
maybe needs to chill bearing in mind
that detractors of the series point out
that the principal characters of Armin
and Mikasa Aaron's childhood friends
attempt to justify his actions at the
end of the series that said we don't
have to look at them as heroic either
Armin had been dropping fascist adjacent
Lions since season one
monsters we have to abandon our Humanity
which itself almost sounds like a direct
quote from a beer hall speech and Mikasa
is so obsessed with Aaron to the point
of being completely incapable of
escaping him at the end of the manga
isayama punctuated that by having a bird
land on her shoulder and lift her scarf
over her neck Justice Aaron said he
would always be there to do
she is trapped for the rest of her life
by the very memory of him that should
not excuse these characters for sure
they are letting personal feelings Cloud
their judgment of someone who is very
obviously willing and able to commit
genocide with so many main characters
joining into these sentiments which if
they are not fascists they are certainly
violent ones does the audience have a
character with whom their viewpoints are
meant to be reflected except maybe Jean
he doesn't really do anything horrible
during the series even Historia while
inclined towards acts of kindness is
indicative of the rightful ruler Trope
in fiction which ends up itself
amounting to royalist propaganda and
while fascism is not defined by the lack
of democracy monarchy and oligarchy
aren't really that much better and while
the day is saved from the bad Monarch a
good Monarch is still totalitarian
nevertheless how do we read that how do
we read any of this
because especially when it comes to the
aforementioned fascistic coating there
seems to be no clear pattern for how
these coded messages play out in the
plot sometimes a character's death
yields opportunity
other times it's just a pointless
Slaughter
sometimes military decorum and
discipline holds the line and keeps the
group together
other times it functions as cultish
indoctrination these themes are so fast
and loose in the series that I can see
the evidence for where some people could
read it as fascist and others could read
it as specifically anti-fascist and it's
not like fascist-esque imagery and Anime
and manga is rare on the subject anime
YouTuber Joe Yang said it's important to
note that the use of fascistic war or
even Nazi imagery is not necessarily an
endorsement of these ideas or regimes as
strange as it may sound the fascist and
anti-semitic elements in Attack on Titan
shouldn't be controversial to bring up
the question the audience and the
critics need to answer is whether or not
the series is actively harmful because
of them that is whether the audience is
directed to sympathize with characters
and themes that represent and are
represented by these elements some media
commentators even admitted to not
watching Attack on Titan because they
were afraid of the backlash they would
receive for discussing the show's
political undertones YouTuber Jeff THU
argues it's because this discussion
keeps happening but it's also not
there's some really good criticism of
Attack on Titan and I think it's
important to criticize it but a lot of
people come at it strong and condemn it
that does as much to kill the
conversation as people being like shut
the hell up about politics
because it reinforces the argument that
people are just trying to cancel this
good show that you like for a long time
anime fans had no way of knowing what
their favorite writers and artists even
looked like let alone what they thought
about the world anime fans have
generally avoided discussing the
political content of their favorite
shows because the art form was until
recently a niche that was sometimes
wrongly characterized as being obscene
and dangerous given the cultural status
in Japan of Animation as a medium and
not a genre there are venues for
animation to receive prestigious Acclaim
that is typically denied to animation in
America the equivalent of rejecting all
anime due to sweeping generalizations is
like shunning all live-action movies
because porn is also live action Andrea
horbinski a scholar with a doctorate in
New Media studies in history said some
anglophone and American anime fans say
that politics in anime is too foreign to
comprehend
a lot more people these days seem to
have some accurate knowledge about the
socio-cultural politics in Japan but in
my experience they're equally likely to
combine a dollop of knowledge about
current circumstances in Japan with
their own preconceptions about Japan and
Japanese Society ironically while it's
never been easier to access cultural and
political discussions directly from
Japan thanks to the internet relying on
their own preconceptions and only taking
on board information that supports them
definitely does keep anime fans in this
position from appreciating the range of
views in anime generally this may color
certain anime viewers perceptions of
shows with feminist or queer themes as
well as shows like Attack on Titan
right-wing anime viewers according to
herbinsky demand the inclusion of
western-style political themes as they
put it these fans insist that feminism
and lgbtq people don't exist in Japan
and that any anime depicting either is
woke garbage or similar these fans are
extremely angry at attempts to
discussion addictions of female
characters in anime as something that
could often use Improvement or the
inclusion of LGBT characters period they
may cite evidence to support their views
that is wholly out of context attempts
by Japanese feminists and lgbtq
activists to provide corrective
information online do not go down well
particularly on Twitter which is funny
because these kinds of regressionists
Praise anime for its narrative
complexity but at the same time deny the
presence of political complexity at
least when it's politics that challenges
their preconceptions again we're in a
situation where media being political
only really applies to media that
promotes opinions outside the viewer's
comfort zone regardless if that media as
Attack on Titan does borrows heavily
from Real World politics and historical
references there is a contingent of the
audience who is so over accustomed to
having their viewpoints unchallenged
that they will default to an assumption
that the media they enjoy is simple and
uncomplicated
but the question remains
does media owe you
simplicity
huh
why am I suddenly wearing different
clothes and in a whole other setting for
part four
that seems a bit jarring doesn't it oh
well you can't really say that attack on
Titan is overly simple or about nothing
there are innumerous instances where
characters go out of their way to
specifically outline what the audience
should be taking away from a given Arc
at least in the English dub which may
not be the best way to convey messaging
across to your audience if you treat
people like they're too dumb to pick up
on what's going on they won't develop
the tools needed to read into messaging
in other media people become how you
treat them which in itself could be a
theme within Attack on Titan ironically
probably the greatest challenge in the
field of literary analysis is how to
gauge whether there even is intended
subtext in a literary work and this
isn't necessarily limited to genre
either Jane Austen wrote what is
ostensibly Chiclet in terms of plot
beats and characters however it is
fairly clear in her work that she was
very consciously writing commentary and
criticism of the English Gentry
sometimes there is social commentary
that is overlooked because of genre take
Edgar Allan Poe for instance who during
his lifetime was dismissed by American
literary canon for writing Gothic horror
pulp the gothic genre was seen as being
far too rooted in sensationalist
European sensibilities and at the time
the American literary scene was rooted
in the idea that to be legitimate one
must be as serious and
boring as possible indeed Poe had an
avid French fan base and was a
significant source of inspiration for
Jules Verne relocation to Europe may
have turned him into a respected author
instead Poe remained in America and died
nearly destitute apologizing for being
such a bad writer and it was not until
another generation rediscovered his work
and began to see a great deal of
poignant and relevant commentary within
it the same could be said of Stan Lee
who longed to write the Great American
novel while comic books are often
criticized by literary Scholars as
barely more valuable than the pulp that
they're historically printed on it was
not until the end of his life that Lee
realized that through his contributions
to Marvel Spider-Man in particular he
had created a significant contribution
to American Literature generally
speaking though anytime it comes to
populous media that is media that is
popular there is a tendency among the
media Illuminati to dismiss it the
thought process being if many people see
the value of this media then it must be
relying on Cheap Thrills to collect its
audience yes because Homer rhyming off
the ancestors of Rich patrons reimagined
as Heroes of the Trojan War is
absolutely not
that however it can also work the
opposite way where audiences learned
Scholars especially can read meaning
into something where it was not intended
does Homer's wine dark sea actually
function as a grand and poetic
description of the sea in a particular
light or is it just something he had to
throw in to flush out the extra syllable
to keep up the meter unfortunately it's
difficult to really gauge instances of
this oftentimes authors are open about
fans reading unintended meanings into
their books though will welcome the
additional analysis artists themselves
exist in this world and there are any
number of unknown biases they may
manifest in their work it's unlikely for
instance that Stephanie Meyer a Mormon
intended to write a book about a girl
who has sex once gets pregnant and dies
but
here we are but in many cases I can see
authors leaning into unintended analysis
of their media whether it's subliminally
or not it came from them so they can
take the credit suffice to say it's
almost unheard of that the creator of a
celebrated and acclaimed work of
academic art will come forward and say
you're full of [ __ ] almost unheard of
for those of you who have endured an
English Lit 101 class or did any kind of
digging into modernist poetry you've
probably heard of earn Mali with classic
lines such as I am still the Black Swan
of trespass on alien Waters that
rabbit's foot I carried in my left
pocket has worn a hemorrhage in the
lining the pond lilies could not stifle
the green Descent of frogs sounds deep
right for a very brief time earn mali's
poems were the toast of Australian
modernism however there was a problem
earn Mali didn't exist the radical
shifting landscape of art and culture
after the first world war gave rise to
different artistic movements and while
these new formats were embraced quite
widely not everyone was on board enter
Australian writers James McCauley and
Harold Stewart who set out to prove that
all this new poetry was Much Ado About
Nothing they edited a couple of existing
poems and wrote a couple of new ones to
be what they consider to be bad writing
and developed a tragic backstory for the
late Ern Mali and mailed off the poems
but even after they were revealed to be
a hoax earn Mali remained a celebrity
poet
even though people knew he was fake
poets especially in America and England
believe that Stuart and McCauley had
outsmarted themselves and that in the
process of trying to create nonsense
they somehow managed to reach down and
tap into true genius genius that they
never could reach in their own poetry in
other words
imagine your head is so far up your ass
that you would literally rather claim
that your pranker is too stupid to write
bad poetry then admit that you suck at
analyzing it but am I saying that attack
on Titan is a modern day urn Mali no
because from what we can gather about it
it's not trying to troll conventions in
manga or anime it's very earnestly
trying to talk about trauma grief group
think war and terrorism the series will
very deliberately orate what a viewer
could simply observe the series very
much wants you to know that it's talking
about specific things to the point of
coming out and just telling you this
happens so often I think that if the
series was trying to make a statement
about fascism and Military culture it
would have the characters actively
engage in that discussion analyzing
literature is about looking for patterns
and this is clearly the pattern that
attack on Titan uses but when it comes
to everything else that isn't directly
stated see the relevance of the urn Mali
hoax doesn't just demonstrate that it is
possible to convince an audience to read
meaning into nonsense The hoax shows us
that if an audience already believes
there is meaning in a piece of media
there is little to nothing that can be
done to convince them that the meaning
they read into it isn't there this
fascist messaging in Attack on Titan
almost exclusively is presented in
visual cues but isayama was horribly
critical of his own artistic abilities
and may have simply borrowed the
established fascist looks instead of
creating his own so other than that
what's specifically about Attack on
Titan implores the audience to feel that
there's anything that needs to be read
into it in the first place why read into
this media in a way that you would not
look at what we do in the shadows as a
complex commentary about generational
gaslighting entitlement and exploitation
why do we look at one and say no that's
just pansexual vampires and then go to
such lengths to justify a fascist or
non-fascist reading of the other I spoke
about this before but tragedy is almost
universally held up as Superior forms of
dramatic expression next to Comedy this
is almost entirely thanks to writings by
Aristotle who felt the drama was super
carrier because it had the emotional
ammunition capable of imparting
political and social messages onto the
audience some may call that propaganda
but they risk having a black bag pulled
over their head by the hit squad of
academics and taken away into an
unmarked van so we're not going to say
that because I have more to do my simple
rationale for why people may
specifically Scholars and intellectuals
hold drama to be so significant is
because
smart people tend to be sad it's a dull
cruel world when you can rationalize all
the ways that Society is constructed to
beat you down defaulting to the
self-evident truth that life is
suffering we hold media that reflects
this suffering to be closer to a truth
about The Human Experience a simpler
assessment would be the tragic media is
emotionally exhausting to see your
Heroes best laid plans fail and to see
beloved characters meet their end and to
see possibly hours of emotional
investment end in sadness this takes its
toll perhaps we feel the need to read
meaning into these things to justify the
emotional fatigue an attack on Titan is
certainly emotionally draining entire
episode arcs are spent to establish
characters and within minutes not only
are they devoured alive but they are
denied any satisfaction or dignity Time
After Time After Time plans fail Heroes
fall and good people have everything
taken away from them even victories in
Attack on Titan feel hollow and
disappointing everything is so
gratuitously Bleak that at times it
reaches this kind of Lemony Snicket
absurdity where anything that could
possibly go wrong somehow does go wrong
where the plot is Twisted to scrape
every shred of dignity away from these
characters who fought for the greater
good tragedy and heartbreak seem to be
the only narrative beat it's willing to
explore for the first three seasons the
day is only really saved because the
main characters fail upwards almost by
accident for all the secret hidden
abilities enemies have there's almost
always a trump card that the heroes
couldn't have possibly foreseen
resulting in a lot of dead secondary
characters in fact it's not until the
fourth season where we see the main
characters essentially framed as the
villains that they become competent and
that their plans are successful the
series does have a pattern of characters
becoming alarmingly competent and Death
Proof the second they become villains
these tragedies implore us to feel that
there must be something to be said about
it that the audience is being pulled
through this bleakness in order to get
some kind of human truth out of it or is
tragedy using trauma in the way that
comedy use is levity that the dying and
the suffering are merely present to give
the audience an outlet and keep them
engaged in the series Attack on Titan
presents the message that war is
senseless and has no meaning this is
something the characters actually do
talk about however if we try to extract
meaning from this conflict when we are
told that conflict is meaningless
are we not giving meaning to those
fictional tragedies and if we can read
meaning into fictitious War what's
stopping us from Reading meaning into
actual meaningless War
there is a lot of stuff in Attack on
Titan and yes there is the possibility
that it's not saying anything at all
beyond the textual messaging of war is
bad but when it comes to the rampant
discourse about whether this media
supports fascist ideology or whether
it's subverting it
there's a lot of strong evidence to
point in either direction as we've
discussed the problem here is that
messaging is broadly applied and that
there seems to be multiple different
interpretations of each character event
and symbol the LDN people contain
elements of a Jewish analogy as per the
Discrimination they face in Marley and
the rhetoric around being the chosen
people of God however if Marley is seen
as a Third Reich analogy then the Nazis
never used Elite Jewish combat units nor
was there any widespread success at
fostering a sense of internalized
self-loathing amongst the Jewish people
they were meant to be removed from Aryan
Society not give any use and even made
honorary Aryans like eldians can be made
honorary Marlins by becoming one of the
nine Elite Titans conversely if eldians
living in Marley are meant to be Jewish
then what are parodiesian eldians meant
to be if parody was meant to be an
allegorical ghetto then how does that
symbol function when we are exposed to
literal ghettos at the end of season 3
is parody a ghetto
or is it Israel you can make that
argument but it also falls apart pretty
quickly because you don't have foreign
Jews trying to come kill Israelis it's
either an incredibly messy allegory or
it's not an allegory at all the problem
with any reading of Attack on Titan is
allegory itself there's no clear
one-to-one comparison any comparison
that can be drawn has counter evidence
but just because there isn't any clear
messaging through allegory symbolism nor
illusion does that mean there is no
messaging at all as it happens there is
an alternative to allegory and that is
the much less commonly employed
applicability which is the driving force
behind none other than the Lord of the
Rings author J.R.R Tolkien developed the
Lord of the Rings as a substitution for
the English mythology that was erased
during the Norman occupation of Great
Britain in 1066. during this period
through the 11th century Invaders from
what is modern day friends brought an
end to what was the Anglo-Saxon era of
England come to think of it even this
could be read as an allegory for attack
on Titan an island nation dominated by a
foreign Continental power that shook off
its oppressors to then go on and conquer
the entire world so maybe Aaron is
actually King George III anyway this
period of British history was marked by
a cultural adjustment away from the
local Germanic and Pagan roots of the
Island's post-roman Independence this
included not only the introduction of
Latin and Greek grammatical conventions
into a Germanic language system if you
ever wondered why English has so many
silent letters this is why but the
complete Erasure of English mythological
cycles pre-norm and English Heroes of
myth would have resembled a cross
between the Germanic likes of Siegfried
and the Celtic likes of kukalan Beowulf
was one of these figures but is believed
to be a later Edition and far from the
only one instead the Normans replace
that with French derivative Heroes like
King Arthur Tolkien was not at all a fan
of this and his creation of Middle Earth
was developed over a lifetime of
researching scraps of surviving
documents relics and anthropological
discoveries the objective was to create
the closest approximation to a
mythological cycle that would not have
felt out of place among the Anglo-Saxons
famously Tolkien loathed the concept of
allegory I can imagine he felt it was a
cheap way to beat direct moral messages
into the readers cordially dislike
allegory and all its manifestations and
always have done so since I grew old and
worry enough to detect its presence
I much prefer history
true or famed with its varied
applicability to the thought
s readers
I think that many confuse applicability
with with allegory
but the one resides in the freedom of
the reader and the other in the purposed
domination of the author and compared to
his contemporaries he wasn't altogether
wrong C.S Lewis a good friend of his by
contrast was going to personally come to
your house and beat your parents with a
cricket bat if you didn't understand
that the lion is literally Jesus
allegory is closed off this fake thing
is this real thing in the case of
allegory there is an intended meaning
and there are wrong interpretations
furthermore if allegory is referencing
something specific then there is a point
at which this media loses its relevance
or when people start interpreting it the
wrong way look at the Book of
Revelations which is not prophesying the
end of the world it's prophesying the
fall of the Roman Empire which was
currently taking place upon its writing
suffice to say if a myth does not speak
to the ongoing culture of a Nation then
it is not a myth that will be remembered
because the nation cannot continue using
it for a sense of ongoing cultural
identity and tolkien's going to roll
over in his grave when I say this but
there are allegorical parallels between
Middle Earth and the United Kingdom of
the early 20th century first of all it's
shaped like whales for starters there's
also strong overtones of axis themed
villains and allusions to environmental
destroying industrialization of the
blackened land in the Southeast Tolkien
existed within the culture of the day so
it's nearly impossible for him to not
draw inspiration from Real World events
aware or not however these are details
that aren't crucial to the plot but the
symbols the plot does revolve around
were intendedly Universal and intendedly
vague the most famous among them is the
One Ring itself many felt that it was an
allegory for the nuclear bomb which
frustrated Tolkien to no end others felt
it could be wealth influence drugs
politics power or even the temptation of
power it's all of these things and none
of them what the ring represents is
something much closer to a human
Universal the ring represents something
that is Coveted and coveted for
different reasons it can't be a bomb or
a weapon because it does not give total
power to all those who use it it can't
be wealth because it has no utility it
can't be power because its users are not
invulnerable it can't be a drug because
drugs don't make you functionally
immortal talking about what the One Ring
could be is a video all on its own but
it's a symbol that speaks to the
cyclical corrupting elements that reside
in all people that not one person is
invulnerable to the Ring's call whether
they have the ability to use it or not
applicability helps the Lord of the
Rings function as a retroactive
mythology because the pivotal symbols
can be reapplied to as many
circumstances as needed there will
always be an analogy for the One Ring
because there is always something that
will corrupt even the best of us even if
the thing changes over time and from
culture to culture but is this what's
going on in Attack on Titan and if it is
what is being made applicable there are
direct allegories to real world events
such as the ghettos and the armbands but
are these meant to be symbols that draw
the audience's attention to whatever the
applicability is bear in mind that the
running of internment camps was not
limited to Germans and here in North
America both Canadian and American
internal security push Japanese people
into camps just like these are the
allusions to Jewish ghettos meant to
implore the audience to observe this
kind of ethnic persecution rather than
being a specific reference to the
Holocaust and instead the aldians can
possibly represent persecuted people of
all types rather than specifically
European Jews and especially when you
begin to broaden the definition of
internment camps in the imagery of
ghettos to a broader sense of ethnic
isolation this theme could also include
native internment during colonial
periods and later reservations and
residential schools but there is a great
deal of debate in literary criticism if
characters in fiction can function as
symbols at all after all the more a
character needs to function as a symbol
the less agency they appear to have can
a fictional ethnic group appropriately
function as a symbol especially provided
that the ethnic group in question
actually does the thing that their
persecutors use to justify their
institutional discrimination one of them
does try to use the power of the Titans
to destroy the world other applicable
symbols such as totalitarian rule
militarization despotism sacrifice
propaganda humanity and consumption
again are moralized contextually these
are Concepts and themes not necessarily
symbols but applicable nevertheless hell
the imagery of fascism itself falls
under applicability when we think of
soldiers Goose stepping down a street
our brains immediately go to the German
fascists but look at the Soviets the
Chinese the North Koreans these
countries adopted the look and pomp of
Nazi fascism for their own brand because
it worked but those are all examples of
bad things problem with applicability
and Attack on Titan is that these
applicable concepts are good and or bad
depending on the circumstance
applicability functions so well in The
Lord of the Rings because the
moralization around the applied symbol
is universal the ring is always bad and
those who intend to use it for good
either become bad or have a very selfish
definition of what good is if you use
ultimate power to bring about world
peace
you still have a lot of ultimate power
left over just lying around those that
want the Ring's power cannot be trusted
with it and those who do not want the
Ring's power aren't immune to it either
one could argue that the same line of
thinking can be applied to the power of
the Titans that even under the best
intentions those with the power of the
nine universally Resort
to evil and that Aaron and Zeke
especially fall prey to the godly power
of the founding Titan but Zeke and Aaron
were flawed from the beginning and they
had intentions for the power of the
founder even before they had a plan to
use it furthermore Aaron had the power
of the founding Titan for almost the
entire duration of the series and yet
his personality made no shift from
before and after he received it even his
ability to transform into the attack
Titan did not corrupt him and he used
both the attack Titan and the founding
Titan to help the civilians and soldiers
of parodies survived the Titan Onslaught
applicability in Attack on Titan loses a
lot of the Finesse in nuances meant to
drive drama in the plot even once held
truths of Titan's bad is turned on its
head when the Gallant Heroes learned
that Titans are or once were humans
which does fit into a rhetoric around
militarization practices where soldiers
are conditioned to see the enemy as
sub-human between seasons 1 2 and the
first half of season 3 Titans themselves
function as an incredibly applicable
symbol for instance I first read the
Titans as a symbol for capitalist
hoarding you have a collection of large
people in differently consuming
everything without discrimination it's
not a stretch to see this as a criticism
for a handful of aged capitalists
hoarding an abundance of wealth and
making life miserable for everybody else
the small people do their best to resist
but most will be consumed regardless
especially since this media was
developed by someone who lived through
the Japanese depression of the 1990s
there is contextual evidence to support
this but there are other readings of
them such as the aforementioned
dehumanized militant enemy but they
could also refer to the process of
gentrification as they seek to push
locals out of their communities or even
the military powers of Asia such as
China that bear down on the relatively
militarily weak Japan so they could mean
anything you want them to mean even if
we can dig through the source material
to find scraps of meaning that point one
way or the other is there any way to
actually discern what intended meaning
if any
there was
take the aforementioned quote from
Hajime asiyama being a writer I believe
it is impolite to instruct your readers
the way of how to read your story ice I
spend a lot of time following movie
creators press tours commentaries
interviews take the simplest slasher
movie and fans and interviewers will
inquire as to what possible
interpretations were intended filmmakers
especially get a particular kind of
question is your Blockbuster movie about
X
the answer almost always runs along the
lines of being reluctant to tell Their
audience how to watch their movie in
some instances yes there is a deliberate
social commentary scream highlights the
facade of suburban safety and comfort
alien speaks to the threat of venereal
infection in a society that had
abandoned condoms for the pill but a lot
of the time filmmakers just want to make
a fun movie it's inevitable as mentioned
for real world events to inspire plot
beats but that doesn't mean that social
commentary is what the movie is for
believe it or not but most entertainers
just want to entertain that isn't to say
they aren't methodical insightful or
elegant people it just means that
sometimes they just want to push the
boundaries of how many ways they can use
artificial blood provided that isayama
offered a similar answer about art being
in the eye of the beholder maybe all the
tragedy and militarism and Attack on
Titan is just meant for spectacle maybe
all the imagery is meant to have no
deeper significance than to set the
stage for a world that only really seems
to function because of war and to allow
the audience to understand how these
characters interact with trauma the way
they do maybe there is no statement
about the nature of military regime
Doctrine and the manifestations of
Martial law maybe it's just about a
bunch of sad people who don't know
anything but War because that's what
they grew up in that doesn't mean Attack
on Titan has no value with or without
fascistic messaging there are plenty of
reasons to like it and there are plenty
of reasons to dislike it personal taste
is enough of a justification media needs
to neither be grand nor demonic to
facilitate an opinion you don't need to
dig into the subtext to either hail it
as genius or the root of all evil being
entertaining is enough and I feel that
the divisive nature of this anime
results from people having a conflict
over messaging that may or may not even
be there to justify that their
interpretation is the correct one and
that if everyone else could just see
like they do it would either be the
Masterpiece or Pariah that it ought to
be arguing that it's the greatest piece
of art ever created or the most
destructive or two extremes that refuse
to see the Shades of Gray in between
Attack on Titan is good because I say so
attack on Titan is dangerous because I
say so all eldians are evil because I
say so all Marlins are evil because I
say so we don't live in a black and
white world of perfection and
inferiority where nothing is okay where
things can only be great or horrible in
this world good and evil rarely exist as
absolutes a world of absolutes can't
really exist the only truly absolute
thing is death itself which a component
of fascist ideology is this Cult of
death that how one dies is more
significant than how one lives perhaps
all these characters are meant to be
cautionary tales so many of them let
single-minded Devotion to the greater
good lead them to their deaths and in
that process did they ever truly live
were they ever truly free death as an
absolute shouldn't lock us into
fatalistic paths but should allow us to
realize what freedoms we do have while
we are alive if death is the absolute
then all other things exist as nuances
in Shades of Gray ascribing absolute
values of good or evil is to reject the
range of experience that life has to
offer the more we cling to absolutes in
anything in life
the more we can sign ourselves to a path
with no way to turn around or change
course
that's what Aaron did he decided that
the greater good was worth trapping
himself on a doomed road that would only
end in his premature death
that's what hatred does to people hatred
traps you hatred removes your options
hatred takes away your freedom and it
tricks you into thinking those you hate
are the ones who have taken your freedom
away and like the characters in Attack
on Titan we exist in a world so full of
hatred that it's hard not to get mired
in it sometimes it's our job to reject
hate and those who propagate it not to
hate them in return but to pity them
they've let their intolerance control
their lives
don't let it control yours
fly free and when the fascists and
bigots and hate mongers of the world try
to demonize you know that it's because
they see your freedom
they see you being yourself not trapped
inside a cage and they hate that you can
be free
and they can't
you have strength they can't even
imagine and it horrifies them
because there is nothing more horrifying
to a fascist
than someone they hate
who refuses to die
[Music]
foreign
thank you
[Music]
eyes